From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes or weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number 59. Recorded Wednesday,
April 11th, 2007. Support for Hanselman it's
is provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components, but windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading
Doug's and developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this third episode
of Hansel minutia, the focus
is data backup strategies. Hi,
this is Carl Franklin and you're
listening to Hanselman it's from
Hanselman. It's that com how
you doing Scott? Oh, it's
been quite a week girl.
This is a, it's been,
it's been a little crazy.
I've been, I've been running
around playing it manager for
the, for the Hanselman family.
Yeah. Speaking of it, we,
we did a run ass
radio this week, the first
episode. Yeah. Greg Hughes and
Richard Richard Campbell. Yep. And that turned
out really well. Yeah. It's
going to be great. I
respect those guys a great
deal. And Greg is a
very good friend of mine.
He works here at Kirlian
and he's a real deep
it guy with a real
hardcore security focus. So I
think they're going to play
off each other. Well, I
think people should check that
out. So if you don't
know what we're talking about,
it's a new show we're
doing every week. Richard, Campbell's
the host Greg Hughes who
works with Scott is the
cohost and it's about it
with a Microsoft centric view.
And that's it run as
radio.com. So I've been busy
too, because I actually edited
the show and got the
new show online and, you
know, modified, you know, added
the modules to the code
to be able to handle
the new show and blah,
blah, blah. So it was
went fairly smoothly, but it
just took a long time.
Yeah. So, you know, my,
my, my parents lived down
about two hours away from
where I'm at. So I
I've been trying to do
a lot of, I mean,
not that I don't want
to visit them all, like
as often as I can,
but I try to do
most of my work remotely,
try to remote in use
copilot.com, VNC different things like
that. But you know, sometimes
you just can't get the
work done that you want
to get done. And, you
know, I posted on my
blog a while back about
having a backup strategy for
your family home. Right. And
that is to have backup
strategy. Right. Cause basically what
happened was I lost, I
lost my dad's email. I
lost two years of his
email. Yeah. You were telling
me about this. This was
in a, the one that
uses Firefox or whatever Thunderbird,
right? Yeah. It's the, it's
the Firefox kind of suite
at the Mozilla suite of
things. And I just got
confused or something I don't
really know happened, but So
then I kind of went
on this, I'm on this
tear to go and back
up the whole family. Okay.
I drew this diagram and
you kind of presented it
to the whole extended family
about, you know, how exactly
we're going to back up
all of our stuff up.
And I'm okay with being
the hub of these things.
But the problem was that
the strategy was very vague
before and it never been
written down and talked about.
So I got all those
little two gigabyte, tiny Kingston,
what do you call it?
Little USB keys are like
the size of a piece
of Trident gum. Yup. They're
the size of the USB
connector. Right? So all the
family members who have no
broadband, all the dial up
family members have those little
two gigs now. So I
went over to like went
over to 86 year old
uncle Ronnie's house and hooked
him up with a batch
file that would copy his,
my documents onto that little
device and, you know, suppress
errors slash Y all that
kind of stuff. Have it
run on a weekly schedule.
So his email is backed
up, cause he's on a
laptop. That's definitely running on
borrowed time. You know, if
you're, if, if he's like
anybody in my family, my
mother, you know, grew up
in my parents, grew up
in the depression. So, you
know, they have that, you
know, save everything mentality. And
one of the things they
like to save is electricity
by turning the computer off
when it's time to do
the automatic updates. So it's
very hard for her to
get automatic updates because she
turns her computer off when
she's not using it. Right.
And yeah, Yeah. He's the
same way I set it
up to back up in
the middle of the afternoon
when I know he's on
the machine and I also
made it so he could
back it up whenever he
felt like, and he'll probably
end up running it himself,
but he's also gotten in
the habit of printing out
his entire contact list. So
he puts it a hard
copy as well. Cause he's
the keeper of all records
of, of all records Hanselman.
Yeah. Right. He's got the
whole, the family, the family
tree everything's managed and hard
copy is very organized. So
then I go over there,
you know, once a month
and pick up that device,
copy it to my system,
take it home and then
put it onto my, my
Microsoft home server. That's a
good idea. So all the
D all the dumb, the
dial up people do Sneakernet,
which is a very effective
way of doing things. And
now I'm set up with
mozy.com Moz. Why now? What's
that? That's the online backup
service. It's 50 bucks a
year and they will back
up an unlimited amount of
data. Right now, I backed
up about a hundred gigs.
So how does it work?
I mean, do they just
do a low speed, constant
backup? It's actually, you, you
can set it to, and,
you know, at throttle at
any speed that you want,
but right now mine's going
at about 600 K a
second. It's been running for
the last week and a
half. It's just about finished.
And then they'll do differential
backups from there. So I
won't use up so much.
I think if you have
a lot of data and
if you lose it and
it's all in an online
backup thing, it'll take a
long time to download it.
Well, you know, with Verizon
Fios in the U S
at least you've got 15
megabits down. I presume that
mosey will, might not necessarily
send it to me as
fast as that, but certainly
within a few days, I
could get the majority of
what I want. I don't
need to get my VMs
and my, my music immediately.
I'm more interested in taxes
and personal files. So for
us about three gigs is
the essential amount. That's that
kind of the, the amount
of really important stuff. Then
there's about 15 to 20
gigs of pictures, family photos.
And then it gets into
video, raw video, virtual machines
and music and stuff like
that. Okay. So I set
the parents up with mosey.
They've got a cable modem.
And before I did this,
my dad had been having
some trouble with his machine.
So he brought it over
to the house. You know,
he comes up to see
my son a couple of
times a week. So he
brings the computer to the
house and he was, it
was full of spyware. So
I put on  put
on Firefox, showed him both
of them, set it up
with a spy bot, spent
quite a while, cleaning it
up and making it nice
and then sent, it, sent
him on his way. And
the next day the system
was infested with some kind
of Russian virus, Trojan, evil
thing. And I said, how
mean he was, he felt
really bad, you know? And,
and I don't think he
has to be, he shouldn't
have to be computer savvy.
So he felt bad. But
whenever somebody gets some infestation
like this on their machine,
I try not to make
them feel guilty because it
just happens. Right. Right. So
I'm trying to figure out,
I've got the thing immunized,
I've got antivirus software. How
in the world did he
get this thing on? Well,
somebody sent him a picture
of like an elephant eaten,
a snake or a snake,
eat an elephant or something,
you know, video basically. And
I said, how did this
happen? It's like, well, I
didn't do anything last night.
I came home after I
left your house. And I,
my buddy sent me a
picture of a video of
an elephant needing a snake.
And I watched the video.
And that was it. Well,
turns out that it had
some kind of custom video
codec that it auto downloaded.
And it said, you can't
watch this video unless you
download this video Kodak. And
the codec was an evil
toolbar and the evil toolbar
brought friends to the party.
And the next thing I
knew a balloon popped up,
like, you know, the little
balloons from the tray balloon
pops up and says, your
computer's infested with spyware, click
here to download an anti
spyware program. That probably is
also spyware. Right? He downloaded
a program called spy, locked
by locked is actually a
anti spyware program that is
evil. Right. And the thing
is that when he sent
me a screenshot, I taught
both my parents how to
do screenshots. That's kind of
their primary way of saying
this is something went wrong.
Yeah. Hint, print screen, and
send it to me. So
I get these two gig
to gig rather to Meg,
you know, big images like
what's this, and then a
big screenshot of something horrible
that's happened. And th the
part that killed me was
that the balloon had said,
click this balloon and spelled
balloon wrong. No. So There's
your first clue. Your first
clue that something, I think
it's gone bad is poor
grammar, poor spelling. You think
that the evil people would
realize that spellchecking would make
it more likely for us
to do their evil thing,
But poor grammar is the
thing that's very difficult for
somebody who doesn't speak the
language to get, right? Because
you might know somebody who
kind of speaks both languages,
but, you know, for the
kind of people we're talking
about, you know, it's not,
they're not the most highly
educated people in the world
that write these things. Well,
you know, I dunno I
can't speak to that. Cause
I don't know who they
are. I know that they're
very likely contract programmers that
don't think they're doing. I
mean, presumably they're not doing
evil. I've always wondered about
this. Who are the spyware
people, maybe one of the
spyware people is listening to
our stuff and can call
me and let me know
who they are, because I
want to know, are you
sitting at home thinking I
could do this really evil
thing? You know, I could
name my DLL, an eight
character random, you know, random
name and hide it in
system 32, or, you know,
I could Ms. Bell calc and
I could be calc two
dot exe. I've got a
story for you. Okay. Once
w when I was working
at Metro technologies, this is,
these are the guys that
made a dos Mitty sequencer
back in the eighties, and
a cakewalk ate their lunch
basically. And these guys had
copy protection on their stuff.
And that's probably a big
reason why it didn't go,
why it didn't last, but
so DAS based sequencers, right?
So one person, somebody calls
up protect support, and you
know, everything's going really slowly.
It's PA you know, I'm
running out of memory and
your sequencer pluses, I'm losing
time, all of this kind
of stuff. So then they
spent about an hour on
the phone with the technicians,
got all the way to
the main developer. And he's
like, well, honestly, if I'd
have to see the computer.
And so the person said,
well, I'll drive it over.
I think they were at
Fordham or something like that.
And we were in Westchester
County, New York. So this person
drove up with their computer,
which was an old IBM
XT, right. This was about
that time and monochrome screen
and, and everything in there.
It's going slowly, sure enough,
they plug it in and,
you know, they don't know
what's wrong with it. And
there's, you know, they're looking
around, there's no nothing crazy
going on. It's just running
really, really slow. Is it
the turbo button? You know,
the turbo button was pressed.
I mean, it was like,
you know, they'd like do
a, a directory and, you
know, it would, it would
spit out characters like bunk,
bunk, bunk, bunk, bunk, bunk,
bunk, bunk bot. I mean,
it was really, really honk
and slow. So I'm staying,
I just walk up to
it and I said, Hmm,
maybe it's a virus. And
everybody goes off, you know,
here's this, the head developer,
this must have been 88,
89. This was the time
of the stoner virus in
the ANSI viruses. Yes. CSRs,
SRS. Good time. So the,
so the, you know, the
head developer there goes, you
know, you're crazy. And then
one of the other guys
who work there, one of
the developers said, well, wait
a minute. Let's look. And
he went into the DAS
directory and he did a
directory DIR. And he saw
that beep.com was in there.
I remember beep Oh, Beep.com.
Cause when you type beep
there's a, there was the
order of precedence. Yeah. Yeah.
So beep.com was like 539
bytes, let's say, so he
typed it beep and it
went beep and then he
did another directory and beep.com
was all of a sudden,
you know, 800 something bites.
Right? Aha. Yes, it is
a virus. So it turns
out that, you know, that
was the first time I
said, Hey, maybe I'm not
so stupid after all. But
turns out that this person
was connected to a network
at school, you know, through
modems, it was known networking
really Like CVS is in
FIDOnet. Yeah, it was a,
it was a school network
and a school BBS and
this person had downloaded something
and picked up a virus.
So even, even back then,
you know, the TSRs were
there in memory and would
attach themselves to the end
of executable files. And that's
how they spread. The question
that I want answered is
are they, do they have
whiteboards and meetings like we
do. Do they sit in
a room and did they
say, okay, here's how it's
going to go down. Right.
You know, we've just got
this Microsoft IE browser and
there's this thing called a
browser helper object. And we
could make an evil toolbar
take over the world. I
understand these guys who go
to college and they, they
might write a proof of
concept or want to be
noticed by the security community
and then get a job,
right. Break into the bank
to work for the bank,
but to work for like,
you know, Gator or one
of those companies where you're,
you're literally evil. I mean,
there's no other word there
isn't, there is level, it's
just a, what price your
soul. Right. So I had
to, you know, go back
down there and check my
dad's machine out and spend
another hour futzing with it.
So what I ended up
doing is I took my
dad's. I took basically, I
took my Mac mini down
there and I gave it
to my dad. Cause he'd
never seen a Mac in
his life. I mean, he'd
seen them like they're at
the mall. And I know
that there's another kind of
person out there called a
Mac. Right, right. It's like
the first time I went
to synagogue, you know, I
was like 15 and my
friend's like, let's go to
synagogue. And I'm like, Oh,
okay, what's this hat, you
know? And then you realize
that this is whole universe
of other people who go
to church on a different
day. Right. And, and he's
really, he's finding it really
fascinating. It's like, there's a
whole world of Mac people.
What's this? Oh, well that's
the, that's the doc thing.
What is it? Why does
it do this? Where's the
menu where's Alta for, you
know, all those kinds of
fun questions. It's like, he's
a kid again. Wow. So
he's running the Mac, but
you know, max, you know,
I love max. They're pretty,
they're great for browsing and
for, for male, you know,
it just worked right. He's
love and that's all he
wants browsing and male, when
it started falling down was
when I tried to do
some, some drive sharing. Hmm.
Right. You have to know
the different, you have to,
you know, you basically have
to read the, read the
manual. You have to go
make special URLs to attach
to servers. Like, because you
know, Samba S a M
B a as the, as
the, the Linux open source
kind of way to talk
to SMB simple message block,
basically what we think of
as UN UNC paths. Right?
So he, I took his
old machine and turn it
into a server and then
I have to go and
make a URL. SMB, colon,
whack, whack server name slash
it's it was fine
once I got it working,
but I don't know how
he was expected to get
Mack, to enter inter-operate with,
with windows. And I spent
about two hours trying to
get his printer working. And
right now he's at the
point where he's got his
email and he can look
at his files. Everything's cool,
but utterly and completely unable
to print. And I have
absolutely no idea where to
even start. I mean, it
recognized the printer, it connected
to the network printer, it
prints and it says, Hey,
it worked and nothing comes
out. Wow. You know, so
it's just, it's all of
it's just got me frustrated
that just computers are just
too freaking hard, but Oh
yeah. But back to the
backup thing, what I ended
up doing was just creating
a Cron job to backup
all of his files to
the, the, the, you know,
the server kinda made it
like a little poor man's
network. There's two people in
the house. So there's three
computers, mom, dad, and the,
and the server. And then
we back it up again
with mozy.com. I got them
their own account. And they
ended up with about three
gigs of data. So as
long as you can get
past the idea that the,
the data is going to
be encrypted and sent over
to them, they encrypted locally
and they send it off.
But some people don't like
to give, give up that,
that the, that control. Yeah.
Right. But, but I like
it. I think that mozy.com
or services like it are
going to work out very
nicely and 50 bucks for
unlimited couldn't, couldn't beat that
price. What is your backup
strategy anyway? What do you,
What do you do? My
backup strategy is all secondary
discs in an external USB
drives. Really. I love the,
my book 500 gig. Oh
dude. To the, my book,
I've got my books all
over the place. I do,
you know, I plug them
in and it's all offline.
You know, it's not a
problem. You know, that's pretty
much my sole backup strategy.
You know, you're going to
love it. The home server,
the windows home server, we
should do a whole show.
I'm going to call those
guys. I, I called them
earlier to talk to Charlie
Kendall, the PM for windows
home server. Yeah. I think
we're allowed to talk that
we're all, you know, there's
the beta program now. And
I think there were some
invitations that went out, but
basically you plug in as
many and as odd oddly
shaped and oddly sized, external
drives as you like. And
it just turns them into
one big giant drive. Wow.
So I just took all
my external drives, added some
35, a 75 and a
two 50, just a bunch
of random ones that I'd
forgotten about, plugged them all
in. And then it does
kind of a S a
kind of a software raid,
kind of a thing. It's
not raid proper, but they
basically build their own custom
file system. Nice. On top
of NTFS. And I ended
up with like a 785
gigabyte rated. No, I wouldn't
say rate again, rate isn't
the right word for it,
but a software duplication strategy,
such that I can remove
one of the drives and
not lose the data. Yeah.
And then you can add
as many as you want,
and removement whenever you want,
you just have to warn
it that you're going to
remove something. And then it'll
make sure that those files
are sufficiently duplicated elsewhere. So
I've just been basically making
a res of these, these,
my books, these Western digital,
my books. They're fantastic. The
biggest problems we have here
of course, is that, you
know, we have a lot
of data. I mean, we're
producing five or six shows
a week, sometimes seven, and
there's just a lot of
data backing up here. So
we need to have archive
as well as duplicate archive,
you know, and then take
things off our raid. So
what I'm looking into now
is a couple of NASA
devices, a couple of network
attached storage devices. Do you
have any of those? I
looked at the, is it
the Buffalo technologies one, they've
got a, a terabyte one
that's basically for two fifties
and it's running a little
Linux box and it's got
a, a, an HTTP server
that you can go in
and manage it. But I'm
thinking that my, my network
attached storage situation is going
to be the home server.
I I'm, I'm absolutely enamored
with this thing and convinced
that it's gonna change, change
stuff. It's fantastic. Well, this
is at home. What about
it? You know, what about
it? Where, I guess you
don't have to do the
work though. We were at
work, right? We're a big
company. We've got EMC and
a San and all that
kind of stuff. So you
don't have to worry about
it at work, but you
know, you can nuke the
place and there's backup storage
everywhere. It's matter of fact,
I think Greg was talking
about that on run as
radio, the sand stuff. Oh
yeah, absolutely. He is the
guy that manages all that
stuff. Yeah. Big stuff. What
about Apple TV? Have you
seen this? Yeah. You know,
Omar is kind of my,
my eye into that kind
of stuff. Omar Shaheen, and
the word on the street
is that the quality is
garbage Ryland. And it's not
that the Apple TV sucks
cause it doesn't just the
content quality of the content
sucks. And I know this
to be the fact, because
I remember I, when I
went to Tanzania in December,
I loaded up my 80
gig iPod video, which can
do both NTSC, the U
S standard for TV and
pal, the European and African
standard or except for in
France. And then I took
that with me to Tanzania,
loaded up with movies and
TV. Cause they, they, they
don't have like on demand.
They have satellite TV down
there, but they didn't have
on demand. So I basically
brought my portable TiVo w
w which was my iPod.
And most of the movies
that I bought are, you
know, three 20 by two
40. And they're really kind
of, you know, and Peggy
and they were okay in
a 19 inch screen, but
they were letterbox chorus. So
if I was going to
blow that up, you know,
imagine three 20 by two
40 or 40 by four
80 plus highly compressed and
peg four and stick it
on a big 42 inch
plasma. I'd be pretty disappointed
as well. You know, it's
funny that you should say
that. Cause I just like
five minutes ago was looking
at this email that came
from the iTunes podcasting team
and it came to plop
and it says basically that,
you know, please increase your
videos that you're publishing on
iTunes to six 40 by
three 60. I'll read it
right now. I swear to
God, it came at 9:05 PM,
which was just like half
an hour ago. It says
greetings from the iTunes podcasting
team, Apple TV is here
and podcasts are making a
big move into the living
room. We want all of
them to look as good
as possible. So we have
three video formatting recommendations for
you. Also note that we
have just posted a revised
and expanded technical spec. Finally,
the Apple worldwide developer's conferences
coming up, blah, blah, blah.
So it says recommendations for
formatting video podcast. One, if
you're encoding your video podcast
at three 20 by two
40, please increase the resolution
either six 40 by four
80 or six 40 by
three 60, depending on the
aspect ratio of your source
files. Why? Because video podcasts
at this resolution look great
on Apple TV and still
port to video iPods, lower
resolution podcasts might also work
on both platforms, but they
don't look nearly as good
on a widescreen TV. Well,
hang on, they port too,
but don't they take up
four times as much space
apparently. I mean, you know,
No, no. I mean, they're
not automated. You're not doing,
they're not doing transcoding. No,
no, no port meaning, you
know, Meaning it'll look fine.
You can ride a run.
Yeah. As always make sure
to test any and coding
changes, blah, blah, blah. So
to it's best not to
create two different podcast feeds
for different resolutions by doing
so you dilute the popularity
of your podcast and reduce
exposure in our charts. It's
better to have one feed
high in the charts than
two that are lower. Hmm.
Interesting. What are you you're
in, that's a very interesting,
because plop is known for
giving the listener choice. Yes.
But when we go to
iTunes, we only do MP3
and, and it's interesting that
we don't, we don't have
the AAC in iTunes. Right?
Why is that? Because I
always wanted to add like
all the advanced AAC, bookmarking
and pictures Let's show marking
works on, on iPods now
without AAC. The only reason
we ever did AAC was
because somebody wanted the bookmark
feature in iPod suit with
MP3s. Now how do we
get our, our Hanselman, its
logo on the iPod? I've
been trying to figure that
out. It should be there.
I mean, it's all in
the feed that we have
the iPod graphic in the
feed, the iTunes graphic in
the feed. It's a 300
by 300. Yeah. Graphic. Cause
right now in iTunes, I
mean, we don't have a
lot of iTunes listeners, but
in iTunes right now, when
I download it into my
iPod, the graphics are in
iTunes, but they are not
on the, on the actual
iPod while it's playing, you
don't get the album art.
I don't know if I've
ever seen that with any
podcasts that I run. Oh
well that's because I believe
there's an AAC editor that
embeds that metadata within the
AAC. Oh, okay. And you
basically get the album art,
like Merlin Mann's show has
that. Right. And then you
can set up these little
trigger events like you could
in windows, media player a
few years back where I'm
like, I know that the,
the Ricky gervais' podcast did
this, where they hit a
certain point in the show
and then he would actually
bring up a graphic. So
it's almost like a presentation
where you could say, right.
I take a look at
this picture and then click
the picture shows up and
you can do that with
WMV files as well. The
problem, the problem that I
have with that is I
haven't found an automateable solution
to it. No, it's all
manual. You're absolutely right. And
you know, we're all about
automation. We're putting out all
these shows and I don't
want to have somebody, you
know, manually doing that well,
and we don't want to
waste anybody's time. Whoever we're
talking to right now is
listening to this on the
train or on their commute
and double time. And I
don't want them looking down
at a picture and then
crashing and then coming to
my house and telling me
that Hansel minutes killed their
spouse. That's right. That's probably
a good place to stop
right there. Yeah. That is
a pretty good place to
stop. You know, it was,
it was fun. Just talking
to you about some stuff
that we need to catch
up on and I'm sure
everybody listened and liked it
as well. This is show
59. And I think that
having it be the third
minutiae show, I think that's
a pretty good ratio of
contact and minutia. So hopefully
people didn't think the show
sucked. Awesome. Alright, Scott, thanks
for hanging out with us
and we'll see you next
week on Hanselman.